README.md, before:

# sample next.js app [![pipeline status](https://gitlab.factory.social.gouv.fr/SocialGouv/sample-next-app/badges/master/pipeline.svg)](https://gitlab.factory.social.gouv.fr/SocialGouv/sample-next-app/commits/master)

https://sample-next-app.fabrique.social.gouv.Fr

A sample SSR Next.js app with :

- ✅ sentry
- ✅ matomo
- ✅ jest tests
- ✅ [@SocialGouv linters](https://github.com/SocialGouv/linters/)
- ✅ [@SocialGouv bootstrap](https://github.com/SocialGouv/bootstrap)
- ✅ @SocialGouv polyfill.io
- ✅ precommit hooks
- ✅ docker build
- ✅ gitlab-ci
  - ✅ quality
  - ✅ docker build+push
  - ✅ releases + changelog
  - ✅ features-branches envs
  - ✅ prod env

## Production

### Env vars

⚠ You need to set client-side browser `process.env` variables **at build time**.

In docker this is done with `--build-arg`.

| Var            | desc                       | build time | run time |
| -------------- | -------------------------- | :--------: | :------: |
| PORT           | port to run the server on  |            |    ✅    |
| SENTRY_DSN     | DSN of your sentry project |     ✅     |
| SENTRY_TOKEN   | token to allow sourcemaps  |     ✅     |
| MATOMO_URL     | URL to your piwik instance |     ✅     |
| MATOMO_SITE_ID | site id on piwik instance  |     ✅     |

### Docker build

```sh
docker build \
  --build-arg SENTRY_DSN="https://[hash]@url.sentry.com/42" \
  --build-arg SENTRY_TOKEN="1234" \
  --build-arg MATOMO_URL="https://url.matomo.com" \
  --build-arg MATOMO_SITE_ID=42 \
  . -t sample-next-app
```

### Docker run

```sh
docker run -it --init --rm -p 3000:3000 sample-next-app
```

## Tips

- 3rd party libs (ex: some of @sindresorhus modules) may not be ES3 compatible (breaks IE11) and wont be babelified by Next.js. You can locally import the code, make a PR to the upstream project to [publish babelified version](https://github.com/elijahmanor/cross-var/pull/7/files) or use [next-transpile-modules](https://github.com/martpie/next-transpile-modules)
- 3rd party libs may needs to be fixed to handle SSR correctly
- Follow https://github.com/zeit/next.js/tree/canary/examples/

Commit message:

feat(api): add user auth (#193)
* feat(api): add user auth

* doc(README): add develpement commands

* fix(README): fix hasura console command

* fix(config): update default env FRONTEND_PORT

* chore(husky): use eslint directly

* build(docker): use node:12.16.2 (#194)

* test: versbose dockerfile

* test: node:12.16.1

* test: node:12.16.2

* revert: lock change

* ci: fix hasura user api pipe (#195)

* feat: initial autodevops

* fix hasura path

* fix: use HASURA_GRAPHQL_JWT_SECRET from secrets

* fix: add /health

* fix(ci): add pg citext extension

* fix(ci): use app.port 3030

* fix(migration): cannot create extension directly

* fix: remove snyk

* fix: add metadata

* fix: remove citext extension

* fix: create extension citext IF NOT EXISTS

* fix: drop extension if superuser

* fix: if not exists order...

* Update .gitlab-ci.yml

* fix: remove JWK_URL

* refactor(mail): move mail logic to a dedicated function

* fix(login): add refresh_token to payload

* fix: review comment

* fix(env): update email

* chore(k8s): fix ci port

* fix: graphql endpoint

* ci: add log graphql-endpoint

* fix: pass webhook url

* feat: add log

* fix: update env override index

* fix: add port

* fix: use correct var for mail link

* fix(api): add filter on user view

* fix: update joi validation

* fix: review

* fix: review

* fix: review

* fix: refresh token expiry

* fix: use default for env

Co-authored-by: Douglas Duteil <douglasduteil@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Julien Bouquillon <julien.bouquillon@sg.social.gouv.fr>

README.md, after:

# sample next.js app [![pipeline status](https://gitlab.factory.social.gouv.fr/SocialGouv/sample-next-app/badges/master/pipeline.svg)](https://gitlab.factory.social.gouv.fr/SocialGouv/sample-next-app/commits/master)

https://sample-next-app.fabrique.social.gouv.Fr

A sample SSR Next.js app with :

- ✅ sentry
- ✅ matomo
- ✅ jest tests
- ✅ [@SocialGouv linters](https://github.com/SocialGouv/linters/)
- ✅ [@SocialGouv bootstrap](https://github.com/SocialGouv/bootstrap)
- ✅ @SocialGouv polyfill.io
- ✅ precommit hooks
- ✅ docker build
- ✅ gitlab-ci
  - ✅ quality
  - ✅ docker build+push
  - ✅ releases + changelog
  - ✅ features-branches envs
  - ✅ prod env

## Development

Start hasura and local postgres using 

```sh
docker-compose up
```

Hasura migrations and metadata will be automatically applied.

to launch the Hasura console, you can run the command 

```sh
hasura console --envfile ../.env --project hasura
```

And then launch the frontend (next.js app) using  

```sh
yarn dev
```

## Production

### Env vars

⚠ You need to set client-side browser `process.env` variables **at build time**.

In docker this is done with `--build-arg`.

| Var            | desc                       | build time | run time |
| -------------- | -------------------------- | :--------: | :------: |
| PORT           | port to run the server on  |            |    ✅    |
| SENTRY_DSN     | DSN of your sentry project |     ✅     |
| SENTRY_TOKEN   | token to allow sourcemaps  |     ✅     |
| MATOMO_URL     | URL to your piwik instance |     ✅     |
| MATOMO_SITE_ID | site id on piwik instance  |     ✅     |

### Docker build

```sh
docker build \
  --build-arg SENTRY_DSN="https://[hash]@url.sentry.com/42" \
  --build-arg SENTRY_TOKEN="1234" \
  --build-arg MATOMO_URL="https://url.matomo.com" \
  --build-arg MATOMO_SITE_ID=42 \
  . -t sample-next-app
```

### Docker run

```sh
docker run -it --init --rm -p 3000:3000 sample-next-app
```

## Tips

- 3rd party libs (ex: some of @sindresorhus modules) may not be ES3 compatible (breaks IE11) and wont be babelified by Next.js. You can locally import the code, make a PR to the upstream project to [publish babelified version](https://github.com/elijahmanor/cross-var/pull/7/files) or use [next-transpile-modules](https://github.com/martpie/next-transpile-modules)
- 3rd party libs may needs to be fixed to handle SSR correctly
- Follow https://github.com/zeit/next.js/tree/canary/examples/
